<h3> Richard Dait
<h3> GEOG 458
<h3> 03/12/2021

</br>
</br>
</br>
!(img/map.png)
<h2> <p align="center"> <b> Essay: Analyzing The Spoken World Mapping Project</b> </p> </br>
<h3><b> Overview:</b></br>
<h4> <p align="left">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The digital geography related project I am analyzing and critiquing is <a href="https://mikus31.github.io/the-spoken-world/">The Spoken World</a> by Michael McNeil. It is an interactive worldwide webmap of location name pronounciations. What it does is, it allows the user to </p> </br>
<h3><b> System Architecture:</b></br>
<h3><b> System Architecture:</b></br>
<h3><b> UI/UX and Web Mapping design </b></br>
<h3><b>Pros and Cons</b></br>
<h4><p align="left">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; One reason why I chose this project to analyze oppose to others is, it is visually pleasing. At first glance, my eyes could not help but be attracted to the choice of colors and setup of the map. In my opinion, one huge flaw that beginner to mid level cartographers make is selecting the wrong color scheme. I am guilty of this. Michael selected bright and fun colors such as yellow and orange that are not only nice to look at, but they go hand-in-hand with the purpose of the project. Additionally, the map is set at a perfect scale as you are able to clearly see the study/geography area and points of interest to understand the intended use. Another thing that I absolutely love are the numerous handling events. One is the ability to toggle back and forth between two basemaps via radio buttons. The choices are simple and brilliant - light and dark. Another interactive event that makes a world of a difference is the splash window. Not only does it contain a share button with working url links, but there is an option to contract it. Furthermore, Michael provides an attribution or more information icon ('i') that displays a ton of information. A few include data sources, mapping libraries and an about me segment. As an aspiring cartographer, I find this extremely helpful and will incorporate a similar style in the future. The last positive that is worth mentioning is the result from clicking on a numbered cluster marker. As you click on a circle, it quickly breaks apart into smaller circles or red markers with the name of the zoomed in location. This can also be done using the zoom button. I find this useful because as a user, I like to have options.</br></br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;While the interactive webpage project has a lot of positive traits, I noticed a few cons. The obvious one is the inoperable audio option. This could be due to a flaw in the code or the cartographer disabling or removing part of it. Regardless, I was looking forward to hearing the right pronounciation of the location names. After all, the project is built around this. The only other negative is, the webpage is missing two necessary map elements - legend and scale. While the splash page window includes a brief summary of the project, I had to click on the associated Github to clarify any misunderstanding. A map legend is essential for the reader to grasp what the symbols, color scheme and numerical values represent.</p><p align="left"></p></br>
<h3><p align="center"><b>References</b></br>
<h4><ol type = "1"><li>McNeil, Michael. 2015. <i>The Spoken World</i>. https://mikus31.github.io/the-spoken-world/ (Accessed on 03/09/2021).</li><li>University of Kentucky, College of Arts and Sciences. 2015. <i>Explore New Maps: Examples of NMP Student Maps</i>. https://newmapsplus.as.uky.edu/explore-new-maps (Accessed on 03/09/2021).</li><li>Michael Mcneil: Digital Mapping Gallery. 2021. <i>Main Page</i>. https://mikus31.github.io/ (Accessed on 03/12/2021).</li><li>Github. 2021. <i>mikus31: the-spoken-world</i>. https://mikus31.github.io/ (Accessed on 03/12/2021).</li></ol>
